# Operands of the Computer Hardware

## Introduction
1. **registers**:
    1. The size of a register in the RISC-V architecture is **64 bits**; groups of **64 bits** occur so frequently that they are given the name **doubleword** in the RISC-V architecture.
    2. (Another popular size is a group of **32 bits**, called a **word** in the RISC-V architecture.)

1. Limited number of registers:
    - typically 32 on current computers, like RISC-V.

3. Restriction:
    - The three operands of RISC-V arithmetic instructions **must** each be chosen from one of the 32 64-bit registers.

4. **Design Principle 2: Smaller is faster.**

5. RISC-V convention is x followed by the
number of the register
    - e.g., add x5, x20, x21

## Memory Operands
1. Data transfer instructions 
    - Motive: transfer data between memory and registers.    
    - Memory is just a large, single-dimensional array, with the address acting as the index to that array.
2. load -> ld
    - copies data from memory to a register is traditionally called **load**.
    - **ld**: standing for **load doubleword**.

3. Example: Compiling an Assignment When an Operand
Is in Memory
    - Question:
        - Given
            1. compiler has associated the variables **g** and **h** with the registers x20 and x21 as before.
            2. starting address, or base address is in x22.

        - Compile this C assignment
statement ```g = h + A[8]```.
    - Answer:
        1. we must first transfer A[8] to a register.
            - ```ld x9, 64(x22) // Temporary reg x9 gets A[8], mind the 64 here.```
        2. ```g = h + A[8]```
            - ```add x20, x21, x9 // g = h + A[8]```
4. Hardware/Software Interface
    1. Endianness
        - RISC-V belongs to little-endian
    2. Byte addressing
        - e.g., The byte address of **third** double word (i.e., $2\times64$) is 16 (Byte), (i.e., $16 \times 8$).
        - the offset to be added to **the base register** x22 must be 8×8, or 64 for ```A[8]```.     
5. Example: Compiling Using Load and Store
    - Question:
        - Assume variable h is associated with register x21 and the base address of the array A is in x22.
        - What is the RISC-V assembly code for the C assignment statement below? ```A[12] = h + A[8];```
    - Answer
        ```
        ld x9, 64(x22) // Temporary reg x9 gets A[8], 64=8*8
        add x9, x21, x9 // Temporary reg x9 gets h + A[8]
        sdx9, 96(x22)// Stores h + A[8] back into A[12], 96=12*8
        ```
6. Hardware/Software Interface
    1. **spilling** registers
        - The process of putting less frequently used
variables (or those needed later) into memory

## Constant or Immediate Operands
1. add immediate
    - ```addi x22, x22, 4 // x22 = x22 + 4```
2. x0
    - hard-wired to the value zero.

