# Signed and Unsigned numbers

1. binary digits (a.k.a., bits)
    - least significant bit: The rightmost bit in an RISC-V doubleword.+
2. what's the difference between lsb/msb and endians?
    -  A bit is designated as most significant because it has the greatest place value in the binary number, so the least significant bit lies at the other end.
    - As with bits, the most significant byte is normally the byte farthest to the left or the byte transmitted first in a sequence. In this case, the byte sequence is said to be big-endian because the order starts with the "big end" (the most significant byte).
3. Endianness:
    - Endianness refers to the order in which bytes are stored in a multi-byte data type (such as integers or floating-point numbers) in computer memory.

    - Big Endian: The most significant byte is stored at the lowest memory address, while the least significant byte is stored at the highest memory address.
    - Little Endian: The least significant byte is stored at the lowest memory address, while the most significant byte is stored at the highest memory address.
4. two's complement
    - int: $-2^{31} \sim (2^{31}-1)$
    - All 1 = -1
    - All negative numbers have a 1 in the most significant bit.

5. Hardware/Software Interface
    - Signed versus unsigned applies to loads as well as to arithmetic.
    - The function of a **signed** load is to copy the sign repeatedly to fill the rest of the register — called **sign extension**.
    - load byte unsigned (lbu) v.s. load byte (lb)
6. Some other bit operations
    1. $x+\bar{x} = -1$ -> $\bar{x} +1 = -x$
        - $(000_2+111_2=111_2=-1_{10}$)
    2. Convert 16-bit binary versions to 64 bits
        - Sign extension

## Summary
- The unanimous choice since 1965 has been two’s complement.
