# Representing Instructions in the Computer

1. 32 registers of RISC-V are just referred to by their number, from 0 to 31.
2. Example
    - ```add x9, x20, x21```
    - ```0, 21, 20, 0, 9, 51``` (machine language)
3. RISC-V Fields (R-Type)
    - Motive: for register

    | funct7 |rs1| rs2 | funct3 | rd | opcode|
    |-|-|-|-|-|-|
    |7|5|5|3|5|7|
    1. opcode:
        - Basic operation of the instruction.
    2. rd: 
        - The register destination operand.
    3. funct3: 
        - An additional opcode field.
    4. rs1: 
        - The first register source operand.
    5. rs2: 
        - The first register source operand.
    5. funct7: 
        - An additional opcode field.
    - e.g., add / sub

4. Design Principle 3: Good design demands good compromises.
5. RISC-V Fields (I-Type)
    - Motive: Immediate

    | immediate |rs1| funct3 | rd | opcode|
    |-|-|-|-|-|
    |12|5|3|5|7|

    1. immediate:
        - Two's complement value.
    - e.g., addi / ld

6. RISC-V Fields (S-Type)
    - Motive: store doubleword instruction (sd)

    | immediate |rs2|rs1| funct3 | rd | opcode|
    |-|-|-|-|-|-|    
    |7|5|5|3|5|7|

    1. immediate:
        - Two's complement value.
7. Example
    - Given:
        1. ```A[30] = h + A[30] + 1```
        2. ```A = x9, h=x21```
    - Assembly code
        ~~~
        ld x9, 240(x10) // Temporary reg x9 gets A[30]
        add x9, x21, x9 // Temporary reg x9 gets h+A[30]
        addi x9, x9, 1 // Temporary reg x9 gets h+A[30]+1
        sd x9, 240(x10) // Stores h+A[30]+1 back into A[30]
        ~~~

8. Hardware/Software Interface
    - The desire to keep all instructions the same size conflicts with the desire to have as many registers as possible.

9. Big Picture (Stored program concept)
    1. Instructions are represented as numbers
    2. Programs are stored in memory to be read or written, just like data.
    - Binary compatibility
        - The commercial implication is that computers can inherit ready-made software provided they are compatible with an existing instruction set.
        - Such “binary compatibility” often leads industry to align around a small number of instruction set architectures.

